New Player Info
This section will primarily include things that you rarely need to reference later, and is only
useful early on or until you know it.

Document Tabs: Main Page | New Player Info | Mechanics | Strategy | Mid-Run Info

New Player Info
Rerolling
Your First Month In Uma
Tips for New Players
Common Terms JP Players Use
Frequently Asked Questions
Training Umas
Legacies
Support Card Restrictions
Training Events
    Crane Game
    New Years
    Raffle
    Summer
Currencies
    Jewels (Carats)
    Friend Points
    Club Points
    Cleats
    Clovers
    Statues
    Shoes, Banners, and Dream Glimmer
Clubs
    Ranking Rewards
Skills
    Conditions
    Green and Purple Skills
    Blue (Recovery) Skills
        Gold Recovery Rankings
    Red (Debuff) Skills
    Orange Skills
PvP - Team Trials
    Format
   1 and 2 Star Teams
   Promotion / Demotion
   Items
   Team Trials Race Frequencies
       Sprint
       Mile
       Medium
       Long
       Dirt
       Other Qualities




Rerolling
Rerolling in Uma Musume is extremely fast, as you don’t have to redownload the game and can
skip the tutorial after the first time, so it’s highly recommended.

When rerolling, you should spend everything on Support Cards. They are what determine the
power of your account. Even the most meta umas can’t perform well in PvP with Rare cards. If
the banner uma is someone you really like, you can try to get both it and a good starting card.

If you don’t get what you’re looking for, return to the title screen and delete your account data
from the menu, then you can start again.

High Effort, High Reward
In an ideal world, you will get the banner card to 1LB or more through the initial pulls, which
takes about 20 tries on average. Then, farm through runs to clear out all the races (you get
Carats for the first time you win each one) and complete the various missions, getting enough
Carats to reach 200 pulls on the banner. You’ll hopefully MLB the card in this process, or at least
3LB. If you don’t, you might restart from the beginning and try again.

This is easier during free pull events, of course. This process takes a long time and if you’re
new to the game, it’s difficult to clear out those races, but if the banner is good, like Kitasan
Black, it will set you up for success for a long time. Speed and Wit cards are the best targets for
this. To estimate how many accounts it will take, use a Binomial Distribution calculator. p is
0.0075, n is how many pulls you start with, and x is how many copies you want to start with.
P(X>=x) is the chance of succeeding. For example, starting with 3 copies in 60 pulls is about a
1% chance.

Later on, the game adds crystals you can use to limit break SSRs of your choice, so even if you
end up with 3LB, you can finish it up with that.

Low Effort, Good Start
If you don’t want to put in that much effort, you could aim for some cards that are good with few
copies. Of the cards currently in the game, Super Creek, Tazuna, and Fine Motion are the good
targets. I would try to start with at least one Super Creek, and if you get any more of those three
cards, that’s a bonus. Super Creek remains usable basically forever, while Tazuna is good in the
first three scenarios, and Fine Motion is a strong Wit card even without limit breaks.
Your First Month In Uma
There’s a lot to do when you first start an account. Here’s a checklist, roughly in order of when
you should do them.
   ●​ Reroll if you’re going to. It’s extremely helpful.
   ●​ Level up cards that you take on runs, but not others. You have a limited amount of
       resources for leveling things up in the beginning and it’s better to take a small amount of
       cards to max than level a bunch a little bit. Check the builds in the Strategy section.
   ●​ Read the Basic Training Strategy in Strategy. Your horse girls will thank you.
   ●​ Add some friends with good parents and rent them while doing runs.
   ●​ Win every graded race once. When going to the optional race screen, if there’s a
       grayed-out trophy in the top right, you haven’t won that race. Each one you win for the
       first time gives you jewels, so try to clear each once.
   ●​ If any uma you train results in a three star blue, or two star blue and three star pink, click
       the carrot icon in the top left and mark them as a good parent you shouldn’t delete. Use
       umas like this as parents when starting runs once you get them.
   ●​ Pull to pity on the current support card banner if you rerolled on it (200 total pulls) to get
       at least one more copy of the banner card.
   ●​ Do 30-50 rolls on umas to collect the 1 and 2 star umas. After this, start saving up jewels
       for either umas you like, or better support cards. Ideally, you shouldn’t pull without a
       spark ready (30,000 jewels). Two sparks gives you a 50/50 chance of MLBing an SSR.
   ●​ Train an uma for each Team Trials distance. For brand new players, that would be
       Bakushin in Sprint, Vodka in Mile, Daiwa in Medium, Gold Ship in Long, and Urara in
       Dirt.
   ●​ With those umas, you should be able to clear the main story to get the free SSRs.
   ●​ Join a Club with many members and start trading shoes for Club Points, which can be
       used to limit break the free SSRs from the story. You can additionally get up to 100
       medals per day from people borrowing your uma. You can use reroll accounts to do this
       yourself each day, if you want to speed things up.
   ●​ Finish off any of the missions you’re still missing. Once they’re complete, you can use
       the random gacha tickets, then use the 3* Uma select ticket with less fear of getting
       duplicates later. (Oguri, Maruzensky, and Taiki are the strongest choices)
   ●​ Each week, you’ll go up a Team Trials class and unlock another 5 slots, so keep filling
       them in as that happens. You’ll get a lot of jewels and friendship points from the class
       upgrades and team rank upgrades. There’s a full F2P team here.
   ●​ Use the Friendship Points gained from Team Trials to get all the copies of Urara from the
       Friendship Point shop. Once you have her MLB, go for the follow slots.
   ●​ Prepare some umas for the Champions Meeting or League of Heroes for the month.
       Even if you lose, you’ll still get rewards, so it doesn’t hurt to participate.
Tips for New Players
 1)​ Save your 3* uma pick ticket until you finish the missions. The missions grant you
     tickets that give a random 3* uma, so you want to avoid getting dupes in this way.
         ●​ If you have a favourite uma among those nine, you can use the ticket on them if
              the random tickets didn’t give you her. If you want to pick for strength, Oguri Cap,
              Taiki Shuttle, and Maruzensky are the best. Oguri Cap is a very flexible uma and
              can run in a lot of things competently, Taiki Shuttle is the strongest when she’s
              good, and Maruzensky is a great parent for a lot of umas.

 2)​ Join a Club as soon as you can, preferably one with many members. These are like
     guilds. By giving people the shoes they request, you will receive Club Points, which can
     be used to limit break the story SSR cards.

 3)​ Don’t buy anything from the random shops that sometimes appear, except for clocks.
     Money is very precious in this game and the items in the shops are not very valuable.
     The pennants can be worth it if you absolutely know you need that certain pennant.
        ●​ If you collect 150 pieces for a 3* uma, you can exchange them to get that uma.
            This is quite expensive, costing over 2 million money per uma, and would take
            years. If you don’t pull on umas, getting the 1* and 2* shards to unlock their outfit
            is fine. Once Daily Legend Races are added, you can buy pieces to accelerate
            the ones you’re targeting.

 4)​ Borrow other players’ umas as parents whenever you can. You can do this three
     times a day. At the start, your parents will give +15 stats, while a borrowed parent can
     give +63 stats. There are also the two Inspiration events, so your own give roughly 45
     total, while the rented ones give roughly 189 total. Additionally, any uma you make with
     the rented +63 parents will give at least +31 stats (~+91 total), making your start much
     better.

 5)​ SR cards are strong. They’re easy to get duplicates of, so typically you’ll be using limit
     broken SRs rather than 0LB SSRs (unless you want the gold skills from those SSRs).
     Some MLB SRs are even stronger than MLB SSRs. My suggestion is generally to pull on
     support cards until you get usable MLB SRs, then save your jewels for umas you like or
     to do a large amount of rolls on good SSRs (on average it takes 400 rolls to MLB an
     SSR card).

 6)​ Don’t use auto for anything. Whether it’s picking decks, picking parents, or picking
     your PvP team, the game’s pretty bad at it. Learn how to do them yourself as soon as
     you can.
Common Terms JP Players Use
If you read old guides or talk to players who played on the Japanese server, they’ll instinctively
use the terms they’re familiar with sometimes, especially if they haven’t played Global
themselves. Here’s a quick comparison for reference.


 Global Term               Japanese Server Term

 Wit                       Wisdom, Intelligence, Int, 賢さ

 Sprint (distance)         Short, 短距離

 Medium (distance)         Mid, 中距離

 Style                     Strategy, Position

 Mood                      Motivation, Yaruki

 Front Runner              Runner, Nige, 逃げ

 Pace Chaser               Leader, Senkou, 先行

 Late Surger               Betweener, Sashi, 差し

 End Closer                Chaser, Oiko, Oikomi, 追込

 Rushed                    Kakari, Panic, 掛かり

 Legacy                    Parent, Inheritance, Legacy Origin -> Grandparents

 Guest Legacy              Rental Parent

 Sparks                    (Inheritance) Factors, 因子

 Affinity                  Compatibility

 Team Trials               Stadium

 Clubs                     Circles

 Club Points               Crowns, Trainer Medals

 Cleats                    Horseshoes

 Carats                    Jewels, Gems

 Fast Learner              Sharp, 切れ者

 Charming                  Charming, but also sometimes Adorable, 愛嬌

 Unity Cup                 Aoharu, Aoharu Scenario
Frequently Asked Questions
Why can’t I put this uma I just pulled on my PvP team?
You didn’t train them yet. Read Gametora’s Beginner Guide.

Is this card I just pulled good?
0LB SSRs will be worse than SRs with LBs, so probably not. Check the Tier List.

What build should I use for X?
Check the builds here.

What Scenario should I play in?
You only have one scenario right now! But, the newest scenario will be the best, whichever is
furthest right. When making parents, some scenarios give unique skills that you might want to
inherit.

Who should I use for loop breeding for X?
Global is out and people are still talking about loop breeding? Don’t do loop breeding unless
you’re prepared to do 500 runs. You can safely forget it exists, it gives little benefit over normal
training. Just see the Beginning Breeding Strategy.

Why did I lose this race even though all my stats are way higher than the opponents’?
You probably got blocked. Your uma can get surrounded by other umas and be unable to move
sometimes. It just happens, nothing you can really do about it. In story and such you can pick
Front Runner as the style every time to mitigate this, but it can still happen with a late start.

How do I win this race? (eg for a mission, or in the main story, or anything)
The most common issue is lack of Stamina. Refer to the Required Stamina Chart. Lower it by
600 in training, as Career gives you secret stat boosts (so +400 Stamina and Guts). If your
Stamina is fine, Power is probably your issue. Make sure your uma also has A or better for the
surface and distance.

What skills should I buy here?
Pick one distance and one style your uma has A or better in. Buy skills that have that at the end
of the skill. For example, if the skill ends in (Pace Chaser) it can only be activated by Pace
Chasers, and if it ends with (Long), it only activates in Long distances. You can also buy skills
that have nothing in brackets at the end, unless they’re at the top of the list (uniques). That’s fine
to start. For more advanced buying criteria, see the Skill Rankings.

Do debuffs affect my own umas in team races?
That’d make them pretty pointless. No, they don’t.

Do debuffs stack?
Yes. All skills stack. Yes, even if they have the same name.
Can I check how many races I’ve done while still in training?
Open the menu bottom right and click the button with the trophy icon.

Does this skill work outside of training?
Yes. Any skill you can buy can be used anywhere.

Can green skills increase your stats beyond the cap?
The internal stat caps are 2000. Green skills can raise your stats to 2000.

How do I get rid of umas I don’t want?
Go to the Hall of Fame and press the button in the bottom right, then click the umas you want to
sell. Double check their inheritance first, you wouldn’t want to accidentally sell a good parent.

Do we know what the next banner is?
I’d hope so. They post them on Twitter, and it’s probably linked on the first page of this doc. If
you’re looking for predictions, check this estimation.

When will X get rerun?
You can look at the banner history for the JP server for an idea, but we don’t quite know if the
reruns will be the same yet.

Is this character limited?
No, there are no limited umas. Other than event welfares, there are also no limited support
cards. Later, they’ll add the ability to revisit old events for the welfares if you need one.

When does this banner/event end?
The end times listed in-game are in your local time.

Which card do I spend my Club Points on?​
This is answered in the Club Point section.

What do the three shapes mean in races?
Don’t worry about it. Just think of them as representations of your Speed, Stamina, and Power
relative to the field.

Is Erzzy playing Global?
I’ll reroll for Kitasan and then aim to win every race with Dober for the title. No current plans to
participate in any discords.
Training Umas
The umas you pull from the gachas are not completed umas. They are merely templates, which
you can use to make clones of that uma to then train into something that can race. You can
make these templates stronger by increasing their star count or level. Doing so won’t increase
the strength of already-trained umas.

When you go to train an uma, you’ll be greeted with this screen at first, where you select the
uma you want to train.




Umas with a golden border are level 3 or higher, which is raised by trading shoes and pennants.
Stars can be raised by trading pieces, which are acquired by pulling duplicates from the gacha,
trading statues in the shop, and various other things that aren’t consistently available. At three
stars, an uma unlocks her unique racing outfit and gains the ability to pass down her unique skill
through inheritance. Skills at three stars are also notably stronger than their 1 or 2 star
counterparts.

Selecting an uma won’t consume that uma. It makes a fresh copy. Every time you do a training
run, you’ll start with a fresh clone of that uma with the template’s base stats.
Legacies




After selecting an uma, you’ll be presented with the legacy screen. Here, you’ll select umas to,
as the game puts it, “send feelings” to the uma you’re raising. Most people simply refer to these
as the uma’s parents.

Whenever you finish a run with an uma, that uma will receive sparks roughly related to her own
abilities. The uma’s actual stats and skills don’t matter at all for inheritance, only these sparks.

You can also borrow umas from people you follow to use as parents.

If you press and hold on a trained uma, it will bring up their stats page. On the second tab, you
can see the sparks they and their parents have. All of these can be passed down to the uma
you’re training.

As an example, let’s look at the sparks one of my umas has. It’s an Oguri Cap, who had Symboli
Rudolf and Mayano Top Gun as her parents.
Blue sparks are stats. The Mayano and Oguri both have 3 star Speed sparks. The Symboli
Rudolf has a 3 star Stamina spark. A 1 star spark gives +5 to that stat, a 2 star factor gives +12,
and a 3 star gives +21. So, this uma will give +42 Speed and +21 Stamina. We’d refer to her as
a 6* Speed 3* Stamina uma.

Pink sparks are for aptitudes. They’ll raise the letter grade of the related aptitudes, in this case,
Turf and Medium Distance. You can’t raise them above A at the start, but during the two
inspiration events, they might get upgraded to S if there’s a related pink spark in the legacy.

The green and gray sparks are for skills and races. Skill sparks will give hints for the skill of the
same name, while race sparks will give bonus stats. For example, the URA Finale spark can
give +10 Speed/Stamina for each star if it activates during an inspiration event. If this Rudolph’s
triggered, then our uma in training could get +30 extra Speed and Stamina.

Let’s see how putting this Oguri as a parent changes things.
As expected, it added 42 Speed and 21 Stamina. Mayano’s Medium Distance pink spark raised
the distance from G to F. This uma already has an A in Turf, so Oguri’s Turf pink spark doesn’t
do anything, but if it gets triggered during an inspiration event, the Turf aptitude will be raised to
S.

The stats of the parent umas don’t matter at all at this point. An A rank uma and a C rank uma
with the same sparks will both give exactly the same inheritance. Though, the higher the rank,
the better the chance of getting good sparks, generally.

One other thing to look out for when selecting inheritance is the affinity, shown in the top right.



A triangle means there’s bad affinity. A circle means there’s good affinity. Two circles means
there’s great affinity. Don’t pick worse parents for better affinity, but if you’re indecisive between
two of them, affinity can be the tie breaker.




Support Card Restrictions
There are a few different reasons why you might not be able to use a support card.
The message above the second support card is saying that you can’t use it while training that
uma. Since the uma being trained is King Halo, I cannot use King Halo’s support cards.

The message above the third support card is saying that another support card of the same uma
is present. The deck already contains the Speed version of Special Week, so I can’t add the
Guts version of Special Week.

The message above the first support card is simply saying that the card is already present in the
deck.




Training Events

Crane Game
The crane game is a minigame that can happen when you’re out on dates with your uma (the
bottom middle option during training). It can happen once a year starting in Classic Year. If you
want to farm for it, choose Urara or Mayano, as they have a 25 day stretch where you can
simply spam dates during the second year.

To play it, you press and hold the button, then release it when the claw is in the location you
want.
Sometimes, the plushies will have extra plushies hanging onto them. You can sometimes see
these through the pile. Plushies further to the right have a greater chance of having extras, while
plushies further to the left are easier to secure.




When trying to pick up a plushie, aim for the center of the plushie. Ones that are standing up
straight are easier to secure.

If you get six small plushies, or one big plushy and two small plushies, it is a big success. If you
get any plushies, it’s a small success. Successes will raise Mood, restore energy, and give a
skill hint.
New Years




New Years happens twice during the game. The first time, the top option gives stats, the middle
option gives energy, and the bottom option gives skill points. The second time, the top option
gives energy, the middle option gives stats, and the bottom option gives skill points.

First Year
    1.​ +10 to a Stat
    2.​ +20 Energy
    3.​ +20 Skill Points

Second Year
   1.​ +30 Energy
   2.​ +5 All Stats
   3.​ +35 Skill Points

Typically, you should choose the energy option, unless your energy is full. In that case, skill
points are usually more desirable. 30 energy is more than enough to do a training, and any
good training will give you more than 25 stats. Not to mention 5 of those stats are going to Guts
and 5 going to Speed which you’re usually capping regardless once you have a decent deck.
Raffle




                                                                        🥲
After the second New Years, you’ll do one training, then go to the raffle. There are a few
outcomes here, which are random.

   1.​ Tissues - Mood Down (~10% Chance)
   2.​ Carrot - +20 Energy (~50% Chance)
   3.​ Bushel of Carrots - +20 Energy, Mood Up, +5 All Stats (~30% Chance)
   4.​ Deluxe Carrot Hamburger Steak - +30 Energy, Mood Up, +10 All Stats (~10% Chance)
   5.​ Hot Spring Ticket - +30 Energy, Mood Up, +10 All Stats, extra bathing scene after
       winning URA Finals (~3% Chance)

Since you usually gain energy from this, try not to have full energy before it. Sometimes they run
events that double the chance of the Hot Spring Ticket.
Summer




The summer training camp starts in Early July(7月前半) in the second and third year. Tazuna
will tell you about it two turns ahead of time. Rest up and try to have full energy and mood going
in. Ideally all your supports will have high bond and be able to rainbow, too.

During summer, all of the trainings are increased to Level 5. So, while it’s a good time to get big
rainbows, it’s also the perfect time to fix your stats that are falling behind. If you’re missing
stamina, guts, or wit, you can gain a lot of it quickly during summer.

The infirmary in the summer camp can’t fix all illnesses, only some of them.




Currencies

Jewels (Carats)
Jewels are used for many things, primarily for rolling on the gacha. You can also use them to
refill your energy or race points. There are paid jewels and free jewels. Paid jewels can be used
for the daily pull that costs 50 jewels. If a source takes either paid jewels or free jewels, it will
take free jewels first.
Non-Renewable Sources
Missions - Translated here.
Trophies - Each G3 or above race you win for the first time will give you jewels. There are 30
G1, 36 G2, and 69 G3. Refer to this list to see when they are.
Levels - Every level up gives you 50 jewels. You get EXP from talking to umas, seeing their
events in the training runs, training umas, and a bunch of other random things. Check your level
now and then to collect any jewels you might have received.
Stories - As you raise your bond with umas, you’ll unlock more of their stories. Reading them
rewards gems. The first four give 20 jewels each, while the last three give 50 jewels each. You
can read the first four stories of an uma during their banner, so make sure to check it out for the
free 80 jewels. There’re also the main stories which also unlock free SSR cards.
Shop Deals - There’s a 1500 paid jewels package you can buy twice, and a 7500 paid jewels
package you can buy three times. These get refreshed from time to time.

Renewable Sources
Daily Missions - 30 jewels per day.
Daily Login Bonus - 110 jewels per week.
Weekly PvP Rewards - Up to 250 jewels per week.
Monthly Club Rewards - Up to 3000 jewels per month, but more realistically 150~1200.
Champions Meeting - Up to 3600 jewels per month, if you win everything in Graded League, or
up to 1940 for winning everything in Open League.
Legend Races - Winning gives 250 jewels each.
Bingo Events - Usually one per month, unless there’s a different event. 450 jewels from the
bingo cards, 600 from the event points, and 210 from the stories gives 1260 jewels total.
Monthly Pass - Gives you 500 paid jewels immediately, then 50 free jewels per day for a month.
Friend Points
Friend points are acquired when people use the Support Card you set in your profile during a
run. You also get quite a bit of them from PvP, 5000 from remaining in Class 6 or 4000 from
remaining in Class 5.

People won’t typically use Support Cards that are below max limit break. It’s difficult to gain
Friend Points through people using your card without an MLB SSR.

The Friend Point Shop sometimes has Pieces added to it, which you use to increase the
number of stars an uma has. It typically costs around 20,000 points to purchase the full stack of
Pieces.


Club Points
Club Points are acquired when people use the uma you set in your profile as a parent during
their run. You get 10 each time this happens, up to 100 per day. You can also acquire them by
giving people in your Club shoes, which is 5 points per shoe, up to 100 per day. Join a
populated Club early to start building up a supply.

People won’t typically borrow an uma with less than 9* in blue sparks. Stamina and Power
sparks tend to be more desirable than Speed. Having a high amount of URA Scenario factors
also adds to your uma’s appeal, as well as uncommon pink sparks like Dirt or Sprint, and
desirable unique skills.

The main use of Club Points is to limit break the story welfare SSRs. Pieces are also sometimes
added to the Club Points Shop, with a cost of 600 per 5 Pieces, up to ten times. The limit breaks
are typically more important.

The price of the extra SSR copies goes 100, 900, 2000, 3000. You should generally prioritize
them in the order Mejiro McQueen 3LB (for Long) > Narita Brian 3LB (decent Speed) > Rice
Shower 2LB (for debuffers) > MLB Brian and McQueen > Winning Ticket.


Cleats
Cleats are gained from destroying duplicate copies of Support Cards. They’ll usually be spent to
purchase gacha tickets. You can get one SR ticket per month per type of Cleat, as well as two R
and 1* tickets.

You can destroy duplicates of cards even if that card isn’t at max limit break, but I wouldn’t
recommend it. Absolutely do not destroy the Urara Guts SSR.
Clovers
Clovers are gained from pulling on a banner, then having the banner change. You get 1 Clover
per pull you did. If you do a spark (200 pulls to get a copy of the rate up SSR), you won’t get
Clovers for those 200 pulls. You can also sell excess Pieces for them.

The Clover shop doesn’t have many appealing things in it.


Statues
Statues are primarily gained from pulling duplicate umas from the gacha. You can exchange
them for Pieces.

The ratio starts at 1 Statue to 1 Piece. After 25, it goes to 2:1, then after another 25, it goes to
3:1, eventually capping at 5:1.

Here’s how many statues you need to upgrade an Uma’s stars based on their starting point.


         Starting Point                  To 4* (200 Pieces)                To 5* (300 Pieces)

             No bonus pieces                     750                               2250

            Off-banner 3* (60)                   450                               1950

                Rate up 3* (90)                  300                               1800

    4* (eg from Legend Race)                     N/A                               1250




Shoes, Banners, and Dream Glimmer




These materials are all for increasing the level of your umas, which unlocks skills that you can
then purchase in training.
Shoes are gained from doing G3 or higher races of a certain category. Pink comes from Sprint
races, Green from Mile races, Orange from Medium races, Blue from Long races, and Red from
Dirt races.

The banners come from winning the race on the name of the banner. Typically, if an uma needs
a banner for her level ups, she can get them from her mandatory races.

Dream Glimmer is obtained as a random drop from the URA Finals and often as event rewards.




Clubs
Clubs are the equivalent of guilds in Uma Musume. At the start of each month, you’ll get a
reward for being in them, and you can trade shoes with the other members to gain club points.
There’s no downside to being in a Club, so you should join one as soon as possible.


Ranking Rewards




The Club’s rank is based on the Club’s monthly fan gain.

In order to receive the rewards, you must have been in the Club for at least two weeks.
Skills
https://gametora.com/umamusume/skills
Many skills will have a style or distance requirement, seen in parentheses in the skill description,
such as (Medium) or (Pace Chaser). Naturally, you shouldn’t take any skills that don’t match
your style or distance, as they won’t do anything.


Conditions
Every skill has certain conditions it must meet in order to be able to activate. After meeting
these conditions, if it’s not a green skill, it will do a check against your wisdom to see if the skill
activates. An @ indicates an “or” condition, while an & indicates an “and” condition. In the order
of operations, & comes before @. You know, P&MD@S.

running_style - This means the skill will only trigger with a certain running style. The skill
description will tell you which style.
distance_type - This means the skill will only trigger on a certain distance.
order - Order refers to your current placement. An order>=2 condition means you have to be
2nd or worse.
order_rate - This indicates a percentage of the racers you have to be ahead or behind of. An
order_rate<=50 means you have to be in the top 50% of racers.
distance_rate - This skill will activate in a portion of the track dictated by the number.
distance_rate>=50 means the latter half of the track.
change_order_onetime - This condition is for when your order changes. If this condition is
positive (eg change_order_onetime>0) it requires you to be passed, and negative requires you
to pass someone else.
straight_random - This picks a random point on a straight to check the other conditions.
corner_random - This picks a random point on a corner to check the other conditions.
phase_random - Skills with this condition check a random spot in the indicated phase (0 for
Opening Leg, 1 for Middle Leg, 2 for Final Leg) to check the rest of the conditions.
accumulatetime - This shows how many seconds have to have passed before the skill is
allowed to be activated.
    ●​ A phase_random==0 skill with an accumulatetime condition might pick a point to check
         that’s so early in the race that enough time hasn’t passed, making it impossible to
         activate. Skills with those two conditions are less desirable for this reason.
near_count - This condition checks the number of other nearby umas.
is_finalcorner - As you may be able to guess, this checks if it’s the final corner. Includes the
final straight.
corner - This condition checks if you’re on a corner. It will be corner!=0 for corner, or corner!=1
for no corner.
slope - This condition checks if you’re on a slope, 1 for uphill 2 for downhill.
is_overtake - This condition checks if you’re currently passing another uma.
Green and Purple Skills


The green skills grant you a small buff to your stats if you meet their conditions. The purple ones
are the opposite, giving a small penalty. These are typically the lowest-priority skills to purchase.
At the first level, this is +40, and at the second, +60, or -40 in the case of purples. So, it’s better
to only level them once if at all.

The icon on the skill reflects what stat it increases. From left to right in the picture above, Speed,
Stamina, Power, Guts, Wisdom, All, Speed. Green skills can increase your stats above the cap.

The value of a green skill relies on how often it activates. Refer to the Races section of this
document to check for the distance your uma runs. For example, let’s look at the Standard
Distance skills.




If we check the Races section, 90% of Dirt races are on Non-Standard Distances, while 75% of
Medium races are on Standard Distances. These skills have wildly different activation rates on
those distances.

Another interesting thing about this skill in particular is that it gives +40 stamina. Therefore, you
could use it to give your uma a boost on the longest tracks of a category. In Mile, the longest is
1800m, a Non-Standard Distance. If you’re good on stamina for 1600m but a bit short for
1800m, this skill can help make up for it. Likewise for the other categories.

Other skills of note are the Savvy(コツ) skills. These activate based on a style, so they will
always activate if you purchase the correct one. They also give a vision bonus in addition to the
wisdom bonus.
Blue (Recovery) Skills


Recovery skills, as the name implies, restores your uma’s HP during the race. Golden
recoveries will restore 5.5% of your HP, while white recoveries restore 1.5%. As such, golden
recoveries are far more important than white ones.

The best recovery skills are the ones that restore HP at a consistent time, such as Gourmand
seen above. Corner recoveries are also very good. Straight recoveries aren’t ideal, as they
could trigger at the start or the end of the race where they have less impact.


Gold Recovery Rankings
Best - 100% chance
You can guarantee these skills will activate consistently at good times. Of course, ones for hills
and corners require the tracks to have those. If you’re racing on a track with no hills, Restless
won’t work.
Swinging Maestro, Gourmand, Race Planner, Miraculous Step, Restless, Go-Home Specialist,
Keen Eye

Good - ~90% chance
In a normal race, Indomitable and Sleeping Lion are consistent, but there’s always a chance of
an abnormal race. Calm and Collected is consistent for Long, but less consistent in shorter
tracks.
Calm and Collected, Indomitable (on non-Fronts), Sleeping Lion

Usable - ~50% chance
Straight recovery skills activate consistently, but not always at good times.
Breath of Fresh Air, Cooldown, Trackblazer, Serenity, Iron Will, Unruffled

Too Late
These skills activate in the final leg, so they don’t give you HP in time to improve your spurt.
Adrenaline Rush (activates at HP 0), Relax (activates in Final Leg)


Red (Debuff) Skills


These skills affect the other umas in the race. They won’t affect friendly umas, so don’t worry
about sabotaging your own teammates with them.

Similar to the green skills, the best debuffs will be the ones that consistently have an effect on
your opponents. Dedicated debuffers will just get them all, but getting ones for your own
strategy can help you break out of the pack. Front umas in particular would enjoy reducing the
speed of other Fronts.

Different debuffs do different things. From left to right on the image above, it’s Speed(Velocity)
down, Acceleration down, Rushed extension, STA/HP(Fatigue) down, Vision down.


Orange Skills


The first two icons here are for Speed and Acceleration, respectively. The best are the ones with
good activation times and long durations. For example, compare these two skills:




They both increase Speed, and both by the same amount. However, Beeline Burst only
increases your Speed for 0.9 seconds, while Professor of Curvature increases it for 1.8
seconds.

Speed skills won’t do anything if you’re not at top Speed, and Acceleration skills won’t do
anything if you are at top Speed.

The third type of skill is a lane change skill, which increases the speed at which the uma
changes lanes. Lane changes are outward in the last leg, and inward otherwise.

The fourth type improves your starts. The white version isn’t very impactful, but the golden
version is very good and used very often, especially for Front Runners. There’s also a purple
version that makes your starts worse, which Gold Ship can get access to by winning Takarazuka
Kinen twice.

The fifth type affects Vision, which doesn’t actually do anything (unless you’ve had your vision
debuffed) due to the hard cap on vision being set at the same distance as the default.




PvP - Team Trials

Format
PvP in this game starts as a series of five 1v1 races, but as you progress, it advances to a
series of five 3v3 races. Whoever has an uma place first in the category wins that category. You
win the match if you win 3 out of 5 categories or more.
You can’t duplicate umas within your team. You can only use each uma once, so you’ll
eventually need to train fifteen unique umas. If an uma has two different versions, like Mejiro
McQueen and Mejiro McQueen (End of Sky), you can’t use both either.




From left to right, the categories are Sprint, Mile, Medium, Long, and Dirt. The Dirt races have
Mile distances. Even though Sprint and Medium Dirt races exist, in Team Trials, they are always
Mile.

The PvP results aren’t entirely based on winning or losing. You’re scored by how many points
you achieve, which can be gained from many things. Having a good start, using a lot of skills,
having a close race, having a dominant race, being the best performing uma of your style, and
so on. For more information on PvP scoring, see this article.




1 and 2 Star Teams
While some distances have many umas that can fulfill them, others are quite limited. For an
example, here’s a setup that only uses 1 and 2 star umas. The “Good Positioning” bonus points
make it desirable to have each uma on a team using a different style.

Sprint
There aren’t any options here.
Front Runner - Sakura Bakushin O
Pace Chaser - Air Groove (inherit Sprint Distance aptitude)
Late Surger - King Halo

Mile
With the umas we’ve been forced to use for Sprint and Dirt, we’re left with few options for Mile.
Front Runner - Daiwa Scarlet
Pace Chaser - Vodka
Late Surger - Grass Wonder

Medium
Agnes Tachyon, Nice Nature, Winning Ticket, Mejiro Ryan are the leftovers. The hardest part is
getting them to have three different styles. You can raise Nice Nature to be an End Closer if you
don’t care for her Late Surger-only debuffs.
Pace Chaser - Agnes Tachyon
Late Surger - Winning Ticket / Mejiro Ryan
End Closer - Nice Nature (inherit End Closer aptitude)

Long
Stamina is the most important in long, so we prioritize umas with a stamina bonus for this.
Pace Chaser - Super Creek
Late Surger - Matikanefukukitaru
End Closer - Gold Ship

Dirt
Also no options here. Dirt races are always Mile in Team Trials.
Front Runner - Mayano Top Gun (inherit Dirt and Mile aptitude)
Pace Chaser - El Condor Pasa (inherit Dirt aptitude)
Late Surger/End Closer - Haru Urara (inherit Mile aptitude)

Raising Mayano Top Gun’s aptitude is the most challenging part of this, and is partially why
most people suggest using the select 3* ticket to choose an uma with good Dirt aptitude, such
as Oguri Cap or Taiki Shuttle. You can then use Mayano as a Front Runner for Long/Medium.

If you want to use a three star uma, check the Uma Reviews in the main tab, which will tell you
what their best style and distance is.
Promotion / Demotion
On the main screen for PvP, you’ll see something like this.




The golden number in the center (63,217) is your placement in your class. The number below
that (118,979) is your current high score.

Underneath the golden numbers are the cutoffs. To stay in Class 6, you currently need to be
better than 137,217th place, which is a high score of 493,950 points. If you’re below the cutoff,
you demote, if you’re above, you promote (or remain, in the case of Class 6). There’s actually a
small band for remaining in the same class, but the game doesn’t display the requirements.

Promotion/demotion happens on a weekly basis, at the daily reset on Monday JST.


Items




From left to right:
   -​ Sets friendly umas’ mood to max (+4% to all stats)
   -​ Weather is changed to be sunny for all races (good ground likely)
   -​ Weather is change to be rainy for all races (bad ground likely)
   -​ All friendly umas start in the first three gates
   -​ All friendly umas start in the last three gates (gives a small speed boost)
The latter four items are mainly useful if you have green skills that are specific to those
conditions, while the sundae is useful for improving performance in general.
Team Trials Race Frequencies
https://vtuberstart.com/umamusume-kyogijo


Sprint
1000m: 8%
1200m: 54%
1400m: 38%

Standard Distance: 54%
Non-Standard Distance: 46%

Right-Handed: 60%
Left-Handed: 34.7%
5.3% have no corners.

Most common locations: Niigata(新潟), Hanshin(阪神), Chukyo(中京)


Mile
1500m: 5.3%
1600m: 36.7%
1800m: 58%

Standard Distance: 36.7%
Non-Standard Distance: 63.3%

Right-Handed: 81.3%
Left-Handed: 18.7%

Most common locations: Kyoto(京都), Nakayama(中山), Sapporo(札幌)
Medium
2000m: 62.6%
2200m: 20%
2300m: 4.7%
2400m: 12.7%

Standard Distance: 75.3%
Non-Standard Distance: 24.7%

Right-Handed: 50.7%
Left-Handed: 49.3%

Most common locations: Niigata(新潟), Tokyo(東京), Kyoto(京都)


Long
2500m: 18%
2600m: 37.3%
3000m: 16.7%
3200m: 8%
3400m: 10.7%
3600m: 9.3%

Standard Distance: 26%
Non-Standard Distance: 74%

Right-Handed: 77.3%
Left-Handed: 22.7%

Most common locations: Tokyo(東京), Kyoto(京都), Nakayama(中山)
Dirt
1600m: 10%
1700m: 35.3%
1800m: 54.7%

Standard Distance: 10%
Non-Standard Distance: 90%

Right-Handed: 68%
Left-Handed:32%

Most common locations: Hakodate(函館), Chukyo(中京), Niigata(新潟)



Other Qualities
Seasons
Spring: 40%, Summer: 22%, Fall: 12%, Winter: 26%

Weather
Sunny: 58%, Cloudy: 30%, Raining: 11%, Snowing: 1%

Track Condition
Good: 77%, Bad: 11%, Badder: 7%, Baddest: 5%
